Those people who think the Daily Mail is a newspaper apart, whether for good or ill, will have their view reinforced by its coverage of the supreme court ruling.

It continued its assault on Britain’s most senior judges. It attempted to assassinate the character of Gina Miller, the woman who sought to ensure that parliament should take the decision on Brexit.

And it prepared to do battle with members of the house of lords who might dare to speak up on behalf of the millions who voted to remain in the European Union.

In so doing, the Mail stands alone. With the exception of the Daily Express, which is politically irrelevant anyway, it casts itself as the lone voice of wisdom and sanity.ure of its stance, convinced that its readers share its siege mentality as the defender of an indigenous white middle class “middle England”, it seeks to hold a banner that is no longer waved so boldly by either the Daily Telegraph on one side or the Sun on the other.

It devoted more pages to the supreme court judgment than any other paper. And its leading article was unequivocal in its loathing for both the legal and political establishment, plus Miller. First came the assault on the judiciary:

“Eight judges, from almost identical rarefied backgrounds, handed MPs and peers the right to overturn the wishes of 17.4m voters, as expressed in the referendum last June.”

It preferred instead the view of one of the three judges, Lord Reed, who dissented from the majority by observing: “It is important for courts to understand that the legalisation of political issues is not always constitutionally appropriate, and may be fraught with risk, not least for the judiciary.”The Mail said it “could not have put it better” itself: “Whether the court’s judgment was constitutionally appropriate, only history will decide. One thing is certain: this was not a good day for democracy.”

Its major concern, which it shares with the Express, is that “Remoaners” in parliament could delay Brexit or water it down.

Water it down? Isn’t that an interesting concept? The referendum question asked: “Should the United Kingdom remain a member of the European Union or leave the European Union?”

So, as long as parliament fulfils the people’s vote to leave the EU, in what way can it be watered down?What the Mail means, of course, is that its own interpretation of the referendum result should hold sway. It is convinced that the voters wanted a complete break with the EU - no relationship whatsoever with the single market and no membership of the customs union.

The worst aspect of its editorial was not its attack on the judges but on Miller, the woman who dared to launch the action. She was, said the Mail, “the gloating Guyana-born investment manager who alternates between glorying in self-promotion and complaining that her safety is under threat.”

Is her safety improved by such remarks? And is it improved by its profile headlined What’s the truth about Gina? It couldn’t find any mud, but its article was laced with innuendo.

Then the Mail is moved on to its favourite targets: politicians. It is unworried by the Commons but is concerned about the Lords, “with its huge inbuilt majority of Remoaners.”

The Express also laid into “the anti-democratic Remoaners” but believes peers, “despite overwhelmingly supporting the Brussels regime, will hopefully recognise the dangers of using their unelected positions to thwart the will of the people.”The Sun, which took a swipe at Miller while exonerating the judges, clearly believes the judgment will make no difference: Theresa May looks likely to snatch victory from the jaws of her supreme court defeat.

And the Daily Telegraph agreed. It did not see the ruling as “a resounding victory” for “diehard Remainers”. The government will still be able to trigger article 50 by the end of March.

As for the Times, it thought the supreme court’s judgment was “rooted in a longstanding constitutional tradition.” The judges had ensured that parliament remained sovereign. The Daily Mirror echoed that opinion.

And the Financial Times took a similar view, seeing the decision as “the most significant constitutional judgment for a generation” and “a triumph for Britain’s judicial system and the supreme court”.

It scorned the Mail’s view of the judges as “enemies of the people”: an argument “so grotesquely at odds with the facts and with the law that only a profound cynic, or a great fool, would profess it.”

The Guardian, in arguing that the supreme court “spoke for Britain”, also had a word of praise for Miller and her co-plaintiffs as “the heroes, not the villains, in this story”.

So the Mail alone - or its editor, Paul Dacre, alone - could not see the supreme court ruling for what it was: a confirmation that the law is the law and that the separation of powers enhances our democracy.